Update docs on max_execution_time (#1029)
Qiskit/qiskit-ibm-runtime: docs/faqs/max_execution_time.rst

.. _faqs/max_execution_time:

=======================================================================

> What is the maximum execution time for a Qiskit Runtime job or session?

Reviewer: We used to talk about system limits in this section.  Is there a reason that that was removed?

Author: System limits (wall clock) was used for both session max time and job max time. But it's no longer used for job max time as that's now quantum time. So I moved it to under session time limit section (and removed the simulator section, as session doesn't apply to simulators).

=======================================================================

> Job max execution time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Job maximum execution time
```

***************************

> To ensure fairness, and as a way for you to control cost, there is a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure fairness, and as a way to help control cost, there is a
```

maximum execution time for each Qiskit Runtime job. If

> a job exceeds this time limit, it is forcibly cancelled, and a ``RuntimeJobMaxTimeoutError``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a job exceeds this time limit, it is forcibly cancelled and a ``RuntimeJobMaxTimeoutError``
```

smaller of these values: 
Job maximum execution time
***************************

- The system limit 
- The ``max_execution_time`` defined by the program
- The ``max_execution_time`` defined by the job itself
To ensure fairness, and as a way to help control cost, there is a
maximum execution time for each Qiskit Runtime job. If
a job exceeds this time limit, it is forcibly cancelled and a ``RuntimeJobMaxTimeoutError``
exception is raised.

The system limit depends on the channel you're using and is defined as follows:
.. note::
   As of ``qiskit-ibm-runtime`` 0.12.0, the ``max_execution_time`` value is based on quantum
   time instead of wall clock time. Quantum time represents the time that the QPU
   complex (including control software, control electronics, QPU, and so on) is engaged in
   processing the job.

IBM Cloud system limit
***************************
   Simulator jobs continue to use wall clock time because they do not have quantum time.

The system limit on the Qiskit Runtime job execution time is 3 hours for a job running on a simulator

> and 8 hours for a job running on a physical system.

Reviewer 2: By removing this there is no mention in these docs about the cloud channel for pay-go and limits imposed there. Is that intentional? Because otherwise this doc reads as IQP-only to me, i.e. "Premium User" is not a pay-go cloud channel concept.

   # Find quantum time used by the job
   print(f"Quantum time used by job {job.job_id()} was {job.metrics()['usage']['quantum_seconds']} seconds")

In addition, the system calculates an appropriate job timeout value based on the
input circuits and options. This system-calculated timeout is currently capped

> at 3 hours to ensure fair usage of the devices. If a ``max_execution_time`` is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
at 3 hours to ensure fair device usage. If a ``max_execution_time`` is
```

also specified for the job, the lesser of the two values is used.

For example, if you specify ``max_execution_time=5000``, but the system determines
it should not take more than 5 minutes (300 seconds) to execute the job, then the job will be
cancelled after 5 minutes.

Session time limits
***************************

When a session is started, it is assigned a maximum session timeout value.

> After this timeout is reached, the session is terminated and any queued jobs that remain in the session are put into a ``failed`` state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After this timeout is reached, the session is terminated, any jobs that are already running continue running, and any queued jobs that remain in the session are put into a ``failed`` state.
```

> After this timeout is reached, the session is terminated and any queued jobs that remain in the session are put into a ``failed`` state.

Reviewer: Should we mention that any jobs that are running are also failed?  And should we mention the specific error you'd see?

Author: Excellent question. I can't remember if we actually cancel running jobs. Let me double check and get back to you.

Author: ok verified that running jobs don't get cancelled
